---
layout: post
title: Stellar Moment Again for Humankind 
subtitle: World Science Hill is officially founded.
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/avatar-icon.jpeg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [science, artificial intelligence, biology]
---

<p style="text-align: center;">
If asked <br>

what is the eternal theme of human development, <br>

there are only two words: <br>

quantity and distribution.
</p>

When scientific progress emerges on a large scale, the total quantity can expand dramatically. At this point, humanity turns its focus to distribution. New productive forces give birth to new production relations. The significance of distribution lies in fairness and order. When distribution begins to stagnate our progress, humanity will once again call for an increase in total quantity. At this time, the meaning of quantity lies in the further development of technology, enabling the world to escape the trap of zero-sum struggles and allowing civilization to flourish again. 

In this era, the world is not at peace, with increasing struggles over existing resources. The global growth is slowing down, and urgent scientific innovation for the next generation is lagging. History has brought us to this point, where embracing a focus on total quantity must once again be prioritized. Through interdisciplinary communication and promoting cross-disciplinary research, we aim to break through the boundaries of human science, cognition, and engineering, which is the hope for tomorrow's world. Even if the ice blocks the river, or snow fills the mountain, we are determined to cross it, to climb it.

To bravely climb to the pinnacle of technology, and to seek welfare for humanity and peace for all generations, after our efficient preparation and organization, today, January 31, 2023, the World Science Hill (i.e., WSH) has been officially founded.

<p style="text-align: center;">
The goal of World Science Hill: <br>
Breaking down disciplinary barriers, building an interdisciplinary community.
</p>

In my studies on campus and work in society, as well as through interactions with top talents from various industries, I have gradually realized that no one is an island, yet the world is composed of countless isolated islands. Scientists from different fields find it challenging to communicate with each other due to the distinct discourses, learning paths, and theoretical structures of their disciplines. Additionally, the top scientists I know, engrossed in their respective fields day and night, seldom have time to learn about other areas, which further complicates interdisciplinary communication. Therefore, in terms of communication, we need to find a new method to rebuild logic and understand the true concept of a matter.

In the near future, there will be a fourth scientific revolution. I know that it requires not just innovation in individual technologies, but a holistic breakthrough along entire disciplinary lines, involving interdisciplinarity, industry-academia-research collaboration, and even supply chains. To build bridges of communication between different disciplines, World Science Hill was born. We hope to join hands with seekers from various disciplines, backgrounds, and fields, continually striving towards the summit of science.

From ancient times to the present, the path of scientific exploration has always been and will always be arduous and fraught with difficulties. We firmly believe: mountains are everywhere, and we will eventually climb up to the top and witness the beauty of the entire world.

We are well aware that as mentors to students, our tutors can not only impart knowledge but also guide ways of thinking. A single insightful comment from a senior can enlighten juniors in a way that surpasses years of reading.

Here, we sincerely invite outstanding scholars, professors, and scientists from various fields to join us as mentors or guests at World Science Hill. If you are willing to help our association grow, or to serve as our interview guests or advisors, please feel free to contact us: <br>

<p align="center">[worldsciencehill@gmail.com](worldsciencehill@gmail.com)</p>
